						POKHARA UNIVERSITY

Level:Bachelor					  Semester:Fall							Year:2015
Programme:BE													Full Marks:100
Course:Communication Technique										        Pass Marks:45
														Time: 3hrs

Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far as practicable.
The figures in the margin indicate full marks.
Attempt all the questions.

1.  Read the following passage and answer the questions given below.                                                  15

    An excursion by the groups of college students is an educational excursion.In short,it is a format 
    visit to the historically,religiously and naturally important places.There are various objectives of
    excursion.It is generally organized once or twice a year to fulfill the curricula objectives.They may be 
    a short hiking,adventurous trekking and a week-long trip.
    Although it is entirely an entertaining package for students,it helps to meet the set objectives of the 
    curriculum.The students are taken to the traditionally,culturally and religiously important places.They
    visit the business trade centers,tourism centers,industrial places,the famous institutions and research
    centers.
    The excursion provides them the oppurtunities to work in a group.They learn to become social,helpful and
    co-operative.They are guided to write diary or expedition report.The excursion brings changes in their
    thinking and attitudes.It also helps to build up their confidence level.Most importantly they learn the 
    importance of group work.During the excursion period,teachers can study their students behaviours and 
    attitudes as well.
    It may be to some extent expensive for some students.Therefore,the expedition cost should be minimized.
    In some cases,there is a fear of the accidents if a caring team is not pre-conscious regarding the expedition.
    The students can suffer from communicable diseases and a sudden change of climates.And they may learn bad 
    habits if the teachers are not careful.However,we should not forget that it is a part of education.The
    students shouldn't miss this opportunity.The organizers should be much careful during the excursion period.
    The educational excursion should be according to the needs of the time and curriculum otherwise it may invite
    bad results as well.
        
          a) How do the excursion change student's mode of life?
          b) What are the advantages of excursion? Explain with examples.
          c) What are the disadvantages of excursion? Explain with examples.
          d) Conclude the passsage in single paragraph.
          e) Entitle the passage with justification.

2.  Answers any three of the following questions.                                                                      3*5

    a) Free! Body and Soul free!Explain in reference with the text.(THE STORY OF AN HOUR)
    b) What do you mean by 'Sense of Proportion'?(KNOWLEDGE AND WISDOM)
    c) How do you lay the foundation of the road?(ROAD FOUNDATION)
    d) If beauty is the source of power,why does Sontag object to women's striving to attain it?(BEAUTY)

3.  a) Imagine that you are a principal of ABC Engineering College.Write a memo to the chief of construction and         8 
       maintenance division to make a new temporary block for the regular classes after the massive earthquake.

    b) Assume that you are going to talk part in a talk as a lead speaker.Prepare a manuscript on "Importance of         7
       Earthquake Resistance Building in Nepal" lasting for half an hour.

4.  a) Read the following passage and write precis from it.                                                              8

       Chronobiology might sound a little futuristic-like something from a science fiction novel,perhaps-but 
       it's actually a field of study that concerns one of the oldest processes life on this planet has ever known;
       short-term rhythms of time and their effect on flora and fauna.This can take many forms.Marine life,for example;
       is influenced by tidal patterns.Animals tend to be active or inactive depending on the position of sun or moon.
       Numerous creatures,humans included,are largely diurnal-that is,they like to come out during the hours sunlight.
       Nocturnal animals,such as bats and possums,prefer to forage by night.Third groups are known as crepuscular;they
       thrive in the low-light of dawn and dusk and remain inactive at other hours.
       When it comes to humans,chronobiologists are interested in what is known as the circadian rhythm.This is the
       complete cycle.Our bodies are naturally geared to undergo within the passage of a twenty-four hour day.Aside 
       from sleeping at night and waking during the day,each cycle involves many others factors such as changes in 
       blood pressure and body temperature.Not everyone has an identical circadian rhythm.'Night people',for example,
       often describe how they find it very hard to operate during the morning,but become alert and focused by evening.
       This is a benign variation within circadian rhythms known as chronotype.
       Scientists have limited abilities to create durable modifications of chronobiological demands.Recent therapeutic
       developments for humans such as artificial light machines and melatonin administration can reset our circadian
       rhythms,for example,but our bodies can tell the difference and health suffers when we breach these natural rhythms
       for extended periods of time.Plans appear no more malleable in this respect;studies demonstrate that vegetables 
       grown in season and ripened on the tree are far higher in essential nutrients than those grown in greenhouses and
       ripened by laser.

    b) Prepare a model detail of XYZ College's Library Meeting on the issues of books,newspapers and journals.           7

5.  a) Suppose you led a research team to study the ways for cleaning Bagmati River.Your team spents three months        10
       discussing,researching and finding the ways to solve the problem.Now,write a report to the concerned authority 
       about your findings.Prepare a brief report incorporating:Introduction,Facts and Findings and Conclusion & 
       Recommendation.

    b) Write a letter of inquiry to the Hotel Royal Century for the conference hall on September 20,2015 on behalf of    5
       the chief of earthquake training agency.Your agency is planning to run a-two-day training on the precaution of
       earthquake.
       (Inquire: Cost,accomodation,presentation tools).

6.  a) Write a job application letter for the post of Electrical and Electronics Engineer.Also prepare a near sketch of   8
       your CV & Resume.

    b) Write a technical essay on "Engineering Role for Reconstructions of Nepal" in the present context.                 7

7.  a) Change the following sentences according to the variety labels given in the brackets:                              5

       i)    The teacher insisted that Ram should be dropped from the team. (AmE)
       ii)   We should submit our proposal before the assessment examination. (tentative)
       iii)  Hey!Shut the door. (polite)
       iv)   Feeling unwell,he hasn't taken his lunch. (common core)
       v)    He is a soccer player. (BrE)

    b) Transform the following sentences as indicated in the brackets:                                                    5
       i)    We know the name of the writer of that letter.(Complex)
       ii)   Despite the teacher's assurance,the students continued their strike.(Complex)
       iii)  Besides making a promise,she kept it.(Compound)
       iv)   The sun rose and the fog dissapeared.(Simple)
       v)    Don't enter,unless you have permission.(Simple)

    

