						POKHARA UNIVERSITY

Level: Bachelor					  Semester:Fall						Year:2017
Programme:BE												Full Marks:100
Course: Problem Solving Techniques									Pass Marks:45
													Time: 3hrs

	Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far as practicable.
	The figures in the margin indicate full marks.

	Attempt all the questions.

1. 	a) Determine how many zeros end the number 310! x 2^12 x 5^8 + 780!. 
	b) Show via mathematical induction that 2^n > n^2 for integer n >= 5. 
	c) If a,b, c, d are positive real numbers then show that 
	 	  (a^2+l)(b^2+l)(c^2+l)(c^2+l)
	 	  ---------------------------- 
	        	     abcd 

2. 	a) A right angled triangle has side lengths ^ b and 10 units. Note that the length 10 units 
	   is not the hypotenuse and that the lengths a, b are integers. Find the lengths a and b. 
	b) Explain why it is impossible to have a polyhedron with six triangular faces meeting at each 
	   vertex. Explain what happens if five triangular faces meet at each vertex.
 
3. 	a) A cube of side r is inscribed in a sphere. The sphere is inscribed in a cone with side length 
	   equal to the diameter of its base. The cone is inscribed in a right circular cylinder. What is
	   the surface area of the cylinder?
	b) Suppose that you have a 9 quart container and a 4 quart container. How can you put exactly 6 
	   quarts of water into a large container? 	
	c) Arrange the numbers from 1 to 100 in 4x4 magic square in such a way that sum of numbers in rows, 
	   columns and diagonals add to same result 94. 

4.	a) Game is played by two players. They begin with a pile of 35 chips, all the same. For his or her 
	   move, a player may remove 1 to 7 chips. The player who removes the last chip wins. What strategy 
	   can the first player use so that he will always win? Is there any strategy for the second player
	   to win always? 
	b) Suppose that you have 9 pearls. They all look the same, but 8 of have equal weight and one is 
	   different. The odd pearl is either lighter of heavier; you do not know which. The only equipment
	   that you have at hand is a balance scale. How can you use the scsle to find the odd pearl in just 
	   three weighing? 

5.	a) Explain why between any two rational numbers, there lies an irrational number. 
	b) Say that a bottle has a round or square, flat, bottle and it has straight sides. The bottle is partly
	   full of water. It is tapered at the top and has a screw-on cap. How can you accurately determine the 
	   volume of the bottle if you are equipped with a ruler? 
	c) If n is a positive then show that {5^n + 2 • 3^(n-1) + 1} is divisible by 8.
 
6. 	a) Three men and three boys need to cross a river. The only boat available will hold just one man or 
	   just, two boys. Everyone is capable of rowing the boat. How can the trip be achieved, and what is 
	   (he fewest number of passages needed? 
	b) You have a piece of paper with a circle of radius between 2 inch and 4 inch drawn on it. You also 
	   have a plastic square of side 10 inches. You have no ruler and no compass. How can you find the 
	   centre of the circle? 
	c) An Efficiency export is doing a study of a certain fast food restaurant. She observes that a particularly
	   clumsy waiter drops 30 precent of all the pizzas that he serves .What is the probability that he will 
	   drops exactly six out of fourteen ? 

7.	Write short notes on: (Any two) 
	a) Need of problem solving technique 
	b) Classical Planar Geometry 
	c) Use of logic in river crossing problems