						POKHARA UNIVERSITY

Level: Bachelor					  Semester:Fall						Year:2016
Programme:BE												Full Marks:100
Course: Problem Solving Techniques									Pass Marks:45
													Time: 3hrs

	Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far as practicable.
	The figures in the margin indicate full marks.

	Attempt all the questions.

1.	a) Suppose you are told in advance that 10 of the catlles present are lame, and only have 
	   three feet. But the count yields 120 heads and 300 feet. How many cattle and  how many
	   people are there?
	b) An auditorium has 500 seats. The decorator has three different colours of fabric - red,
	   blue and yellow, and will randomly uphotster each seat with one of the three colours.So
	   some will end up red, some bliie, and some yellow, with  no particular  pattern. In how 
	   many different ways can this be done?	   

2.	a) Imagine five planes in 3D space are kept in general position. Now find out into how many
	   regions will these planes divide the space?
	b) To tile a Hoor with circular tile, which method is essential-rectangular or hexagonal way
	   of putting the circular tiles?

3.	a)

	b) Examine the equation
	   			 1 = 1
			     1 - 4 = -(1 + 2)
			 1 - 4 + 9 = 1 + 2 + 3
		    1 - 4 + 9 - 16 = -(1 + 2 + 3 + 4)
		Determine the pattern and prove this identity.

4.	a) Consider the addition problem.
		LETS
		WAVE
		----
		LATER
      	   where different letters stand for the different digits and two occurences of letters stand 
	   for same digits. Find all digits.
	b) Which one is greater -sin(cosx) or cos(sinx)?

5.	a) There are four couples that needs to cross a river. A small boat is available that will hold 
	   just two people at a time. The males involved are quite jealous. No women can be left with a man
	   unless her husband is also present. There are no other constraints. Devise a crossing strategy 
	   for minimum number of trips, so that each one gets crossed.
	b) A 10 years old child puts $100 in the bank. She intended to withdraw the money on her 21st birthday.
	   Which one is better for her
	   	i. an account with 5% interest compounded daily, or
	       ii. an account with 5.1% interest compounded weekly?

6. 	a) What is the last digit of 3^(65221) ?
	b) Consider the polyhedron with 5 triangular faces meeting at each vertex. Find number of faces, edges 
	   and vertices.
	c) Try to find out multi-digit number that is multiplied by the number 9(nine) or any of its multiplication
	   product(18, 27, 36, ...) which results in the multiplication factor repeat n number of times?

7. 	Write short notes on:(Any two)
	a) Application of PST in programming.
	b) Magic Square.
	c) Impossible problems. 

		